 Okay, mine is finally started here. So I guess the thing to do at this point is go over the files that I've handed you and make sure that you understand what's going on in each one of them. 1727.tar.gz 1728.tar.gz 1729.tar.gz Okay, so I suppose the thing to do is go over each of them in order. We'll start with the one ending in 9412. And actually, I think the right thing to do here is let's open up a teammate session and look over these. That way we're looking at exactly the same thing. Oh, I don't have teammate on that machine. Okay. Okay. There you are. Welcome to my computer. However large you can make yours because. All right. Okay, these are the 1727 recordings. So you have all of these. Yeah, this was going forward. Why aren't you? Hmm. Okay, yeah, there's plenty there. Yeah. And this one seems to be stalled somehow. Oh, there it goes. Oh, it's not doing the. It's not doing the hit enter to go faster thing on this one for some reason. I wonder if it has something to do with running teammate. I don't know. Okay, now it's doing it right. I know it's just if I hit enter it works. So this is a file of me literally just installing Eskimo, right? Easy, simple. All right, let's go into our next victim. Okay, same machine. I am changing the password. Easy. No, the password in that file is not the real password that I had on that machine at the time. I did go back and edit it. I also made sure that my passwords are not in any of these files. So I guess technically it means the timing. In reality, we're security engineers. What are we doing using passwords for all of this? We should be using hardware tokens and all that wonderful jazz. And, you know, agent forwarding and. I'm bad at this. Okay, that was that one. 9556. So now we have 9592. Same machine. Just doing an apt update. Oh, yeah, this is an apt update and I still had contrib and non-free in my apt repositories. And so what I did, I figured this is what, you know, discovery is an item for. Since I still have those in my apt repositories, I removed them. Yes. And the dist upgrade. That's right. This was actually a difficult, you know, quote unquote difficult session. So. Yeah, there's like three megabytes of stuff in here. Yeah, this might take me a little bit of hitting enter here. So did you see the most recent Kursk, a sucked. That's a good one. I watched that one with my wife. Oh, no, not that one. I was thinking the one before that. The alien civilization. Huh. I might have to look up which one it was then. I'm talking about the one that was a description of a potential alien. Society and the stars that blinked. Yeah. Okay, so we're actually to the point where we're upgrading now. It goes and does its thing. But if I remember correctly, it actually runs into. Yeah, this runs into a problem and I have to work around it, which is, you know, exactly what we're looking for. Right. So I'll tell you when we get there. Yep, there we are. So there were two files. There was one file that was in the same in two archives. And Debbie and, you know, screams at you when that happens. So it looks like they moved a file from one Debbie package to another Debbie in package. But since they're not interdependent or they're not, you know, it didn't do them in the right order. It means that first I tried to force an overwrite and just go, hey, they're the same file. Why don't you overwrite? Well, I screwed that up because apt-get dist upgrade doesn't have a force overwrite option. And then I just DPKG configured everything. Which means that I ended up with this, you know, nice little mess of. Things that did not have their dependencies installed and were not happy with that. So I went back and did another dist upgrade and it yelled at me, of course, because dependencies are all broken. Right. And just asked for me to fix broken install. And so I think I did that. And that fixed the problem, I think. 45 percent. Come on. I don't know what's up with these escape sequence problems in this Python code. This looks like a print run and Prunsel is starting to have. I mean, they work, but. OK, so I did a fixed reinstall, fixed broken reinstall again just to make sure everything was fine. And, yep, everything was fine after that. So then I didn't auto remove to remove all the, you know, cruft. And finally, back to a dist upgrade and try to finish off the rest of my dist upgrade. Yep. I was not planning on it. I'm like, let's just upgrade the box before I go do something. And yeah. But these are the things that happen. So the timing in this is going to be interesting because in another in another console, I was actually doing maintenance on the disks. So so there was a raid rebuild happening in the background and the disks were behaving really slow to start with. And then they started behaving quickly. It'll only show in the timestamps of the output because, you know. I didn't actually change anything other than how fast the disks were, but. Just doing a regular maintenance cycle on the machine. Yeah. Yeah, snap is. We really should be removing it from our stuff at work, but. Cleanliness is not the nature of the job. It's just get it done. Okay, come on. It figures itself out. I have dependency problems, but I'm going to clean up anyway. And that's because it's going to go back over later and fill in all the dependencies. Okay, this might take a few minutes. Well, technically we do because of this graphical defect that we're seeing here because apt always has a has a bar at the bottom of the window so you can see it going across. So we have a progress bar. Every time it updates, we get to see it in the output here, but we will not see it in the output or I guess we'll see it in the output of the skin of a file, but it will always be at the bottom because it'll be in the right place. Well, let's see. There's my DHCP server failing to start. So the machine that I'm upgrading here is not what you would consider Debbie in stock. This is actually something for my virtualization setup. So it's got a odd set of packages installed, one of which is a DHCP server that I only use, of course, on the local bridge device, right? And since the bridge device is down, the DHCP server fails. But that's fine. We're all the way to the point of deploying kernels. Yep, now we'll be asked about grub configuration and I keep the grub configuration. Where should I install the bootloader? All the real disks. Okay, we didn't get it on two of them. I don't care. At least as long as it's on one of them. And 98, 99. Okay. Oh, and it ramfs problems because, of course, I installed the new kernel and I didn't have space in the boot partition for that new kernel. So you can see here my boot partition is 90% full. Yeah, so I look at what's in there. Yep, I have four kernels in my boot partition. I don't need more kernels. Look at my kernels. Ask which kernel I'm running. It's a 6.6, so I definitely don't need, you know, fives, six ohs, six ones, six fours and six fives. Six six is working fine. So I go through and start removing kernels. There go the fives. Here goes six. I typo that. And here goes six fours. And at this point I should have enough disk space, and I do, so I configure everything. And then it removes six five whenever I ask for the next upgrade. Debian has actually started removing old kernels, thankfully. So this time, ask for which should be restarted, what disks we should install Grub on. And then I go through just a list of my dpkg-l at the end of it, just so that the system knows exactly what was installed on my box after the install was done. And that's that file. Reasonable? So that was 9556. Right? Yes, it was. So we'll go to 9592. Looks like same machine. Or is this the same machine? Oh, we must have been watching 9592 because this is the same thing again. Yeah, okay. We were in 9592 to start with. Okay, good. So if that was 9592, we need to go into 023. Yeah, okay, this is our next one. Okay, same machine. Trying to see if I have PRONCIL or PRINT RUN installed. No, I didn't have it installed. I'm setting up to, of course, run a 3D printer. Go install it. For some reason it picked up slicer and I'm not sure why since I mean I'm going to be using Cura. But it decided that was a dependency somehow. Yep. So there we go. PRONCIL is still spitting out those escaping problems. I think Python 3 changed its definition of, and the Python code hasn't been updated. Okay. New kernel available. Please reboot me. And I don't. So I open up PRONCIL. Try to connect to a printer. I am not root. And I don't have the demo user added to the right group to test the printer. Yep, ACM0 is actually one of the JTAG devices. Yeah. So this time I tried to connect to TTY0 and then basically went, I'm probably not going to have to PRINT anyway, and exited stage right. Okay. So that was 23946. So let's take a look at 24819. Oh, literally just opened up a shell prompt and left. That is as short as a prompt annotation can possibly get. Okay. And let's go with. I'm not even sure what I was intending on doing at that point. So here's the next one. Go back to 138. And now I'm going to set up a Chirrut environment so that I can start doing installs of stuff and capturing it. And so I installed Dbootstrap so I can set up a Chirrut. Oh, wow. This one is actually 80 by 25. Okay, I installed Dbootstrap. And then finally I sudo it and give it the right. So this time I didn't put the HTTP in front of the Debian mirror it should use. This time I do. And I forgot the slash Debian. This time I do. And now it's going to go through a full retrieve, validate and build up of a Chirrut. Extracts everything, unpacks everything and. Configures all the packages. And that was it. So just setting up a Chirrut with Dbootstrap. Okay, and our last one here, I believe is. Oh, we have a couple more still left. Okay, I need to reset my window. Okay, so that was. 24819, right? All right, in that case 29353 should be next. Oh no, 29. Okay, bash keeps. Since I hit control C bash forgets my command since that's the command that failed. This is a new behavior. So now if I hit up. See how. Okay. What the. Okay, I'm still figuring out this new behavior. So 29353 was the one we just looked at. So we need to look at 31157. I just go into my Chirrut directory and then I decide to go do something else. So let's look at 34714. Oh. Yep, looking for port 22 because I'm trying to figure out which boxes are actually attached to my network. I believe at this point I'm trying to get a. This FGP machine of mine back onto the network. And so I looked for it. It's named Debbie and two and since it wasn't in this list, I went back to poking at the machine. So now instead of 34. 113351. Okay, this time I'm necessitating into I think it is that machine this time. No, that's Debbie and not Debbie and two. Okay, 138 the machine I'm looking for. No, that's Box top. Ah, okay. I was having a problem getting the machine named Debbie in there to power off. The power off command was missing for some reason and I didn't quite know what was going on. And I think it turned out to be that I just wasn't in the right. Just wasn't the right user. And so I'm sitting here looking at another machine to go. Well, what actually gives me the power off command? So. 351. So let's go to 3408. Back to 138. Take a look at what is power off. Yeah, this time I actually get my DPKG syntax correct. Search for the power off command. Okay. 178. Or the machine 138 told me which package power off is in. So now I'm going to go to the machine that is Debbie in and try to install that. And then look like an idiot because well, first I wasn't in the pseudo as file, so I have to SU. And then I went to install it and it's already there. It was just that I wasn't SU to dash, so I didn't have roots full path in the system. And when I SU dash, yeah, I'm able to actually get to the right machine. I'm able to actually turn off the machine. And let's see, that was. 3408. Yeah. Yes, it was. So let's look at. 4065. This is me trying to find the machine label Debbie in to. Are you it? No. Okay. Get out of there. I can't log into the machine. Let's look at 4790. Okay, go back to 138, which is kind of my utility machine here. Oh, look at the entire output of D message. Oh, yeah. This is me actually doing some disk maintenance or looking at the disks on that machine so I could try to get the disks. I was having a problem with Debbie and to booting and I didn't know why. And so I'm like, all right, I guess I need something to boot off of. Can I boot off of this? And it has an EFI file system. So in theory, I could boot off of it. But in practice, whenever I did, I found out I didn't have. So the Debbie machine I have installed uses LVM. And the utility machine uses MD. So I didn't have any LVM utilities in my init RD. So 4790. Okay, we're almost done here. This time Debbie and to is online. I've actually fixed it. And I'm logging into it. I decided to install MD admin because I was thinking of setting up a rate array on it. And then I just basically decided, no, I only have two disks. A rate array isn't going to get me closer to what I'm looking for with this machine. Because in reality, since this is going to be an FPGA host, I'm going to need that disk space to be just disk space. So I was just looking at the disk configuration. This is a standard Debian install, nothing custom on it. So just one PV. And I shut it down to see. I shut it down because I was thinking I was going to set up an MD ADM around around it, but I didn't. OK, we have one more here. Me getting back into Debbie and to. And trying to look at the serial port. But of course, I didn't have screen installed. I connected to the serial port and I couldn't get any output on it. So this is me trying to talk to the serial port on the FPGA board. And just not getting anywhere. And the reason is I don't have the pin out right on the adapter board. And that's kind of where I'm at now. I disconnected everything to move it and I didn't mark down my pin out. So now I have to go do another search for which pins are which. OK, and that's it. Yeah, that was it. Do you have questions over the. I think all of it was pretty straightforward. We did not. Yep. No. Right. So this is so the only real changes that occurred with all of this was getting my kernels set up properly on the one machine, getting it upgraded, setting up to do a Cheroute. And other than that, this has just been, you know, general maintenance, some in mapping around because because my boxes identify themselves whenever I ask them in in map. I haven't memorized their IPs yet. I think our next step is just for you to offline do the annotation of these files. And then if you have any questions, we'll get back online and discuss them. And then we hand the audios of both ends of this and the annotated files to our student group tomorrow slash import the. So we still don't have a. We haven't set up. Whisper. And we should be whispering these two ends of this recording. So, And then we will we will take the whispered version of these recordings. So there's also some good news on that front to might as well tell you all I have you here. So, a associate of mine for, you know, for legal reasons, has decided to try to set up a whisper like setup using only the information from Mozilla's Mozilla has a voice project I think I actually even contributed to it once upon a time. So they're using just Mozilla's voice project to create a whisper like thing. They probably will not be right. You don't have to. Yeah, so that will give us a whisper like component, we can have in our system and the audio will not be. I mean, I'm sure as time and technology advances will probably want to re encode all the audio again with a newer version of a newer thing, just to get it more precise. But in practice, I think it will do for now, and that will get us quite a bit further. So we will then take the text from these audio recordings or from all the audio recordings we've done so far this and the others. And we will take that text and use it for no base model training. And we will also use the skinner sessions that we have not annotated and have no annotation yet for base model training. Then we will take the skinner session that we do have annotated and the sessions, put them into the database software that Zach has been building and start doing the, you know, doing effectively capture as more fine grain dissolution of these skinner recordings. That way we can then put together very short, you know, synthetic skinner sessions for fine tuning. I think that's a plan. OK, well then, let's do it. All right. In that case, let's, yep, let's kill the recordings on both ends here and then we can take the first. Oh yeah, that's a fair point. OK. I'm not sure how accurate my. Where are you? You're there. OK, three, two, one.